#  Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup
##  Description
This project contains the necessary guidelines for hardware and software setup for using the testbench developed during the thesis work which is submitted to Mechanical Engineering Department of BUET under the title of **Enhancing Quadcopter Trajectory Tracking with Model Predictive Controller and Linear Quadratic Integral Controller Using Linear Parameter Varying Approach under Variable Disturbances**. Prospective users should follow this repository for understanding the thesis or using this testbench for their research.
##  Getting Started
###  Dependencies
*  Windows 10 or later versions
*  MATLAB 2022 or later versions
*  Arduino IDE
### Installing
*  Download and install Industrial Communication Toolbox in MATLAB for MQTT functionalities
*  Download and install [Eclipse mosquitto]( https://mosquitto.org/download/) (64-bit build)
*  Download [MQTT Explorer]( https://github.com/thomasnordquist/MQTT-Explorer/releases/download/v0.4.0-beta.6/MQTT-Explorer-0.4.0-beta.6.exe) 
*  Follow along [this tutorial]( https://iotcircuithub.com/esp8266-programming-arduino/) for setting up Arduino IDE for ESP01 (Hack: You can actually just short-circuit the RESET pin with GND instead of using a RESET Button)
*  Watch [this video](https://youtu.be/IDMMzxDV4PQ?si=-UPuiMfHLJFbvFbT) for setting up Windows Firewall so that MQTT can work
*  Copy the files in the [mosquitto]( https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/tree/main/mosquitto) directory and paste them in the mosquitto folder in Program-Files of your computer
*  Setup the router for address reservation (as the codes are developed based on the premise that the IP Adress of the MQTT server is fixed). Go to ```192.168.0.1``` (with the local password as ```testbench41```) and then move to Advanced Settings. There go to the Network tab and modify address reservation so that your Laptop (MQTT Server) is selected to reserve the address ```192.168.0.100```.
##  How To Use the Files
### Setting up Sensors

The Sensor setup is described in the Thesis book in **chapter 9.4** with proper diagrams. The stand-alone setup contains an ESP8266-01 per module which is flashed with the firmware which is recorded in the [encoder.cpp](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/wireless_setup/Arduino%20Codes/encoder_wifi.cpp) file. Copy the code to the arduino sketch and flash the firmware to ESP8266-01 according to the tutorial previously mentioned. Only one line is required to be modified in the code according to the function or position of the sensor: roll, pitch or yaw. The sensors would be powered via the Li-ion 18650 batteries which would also power the ESP8266-01 and the stand-alone circuit would keep sending the data of the sensor wirelessly via MQTT protocol. The LED signal generated by the ESP8266 indicates the status of the connection.
*  **Beeping slowly with 5 second pause:** MQTT connection is yet to be established
*  **Beeping with 1 second pause:** Wifi got disconnected
*  **Beeping fast:** Data is being sent
*  **No beep:** Malfunctioning, most likely the wire connections or solders are loosen or battery is dead
###  Usage of Testbench

**MQTT Credentials**  

MQTT Server: ```192.168.0.100```  
MQTT Username: ```aiferdous```  
MQTT Password: ```12341234```  

*You can change the MQTT credentials by updating the mosquitto.conf and passwd files that you pasted before. For doing that, you must update them using command prompt or edit the files, the details of which can by found in the website documentation of mosquitto or you can watch related YouTube videos.*

**WiFi Router Credentials**  

SSID: ```drone-testbench-thesis```  
Password: ```tbthesis```
*  Firstly, open command prompt, go to the mosquitto directory and run the mosquitto server by running the command ```mosquitto```.
*  Power the testbench and the router. Check in MQTT Explorer if the topics are visible to your computer.
*  Then set the drone to its initial orientation of zero roll,pitch and yaw and run the [Encoder_data.m](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/wireless_setup/MATLAB%20Scripts/Encoder_data.m) script.
*  While the script is running, the encoder data will be automatically recorded. You can modify the value of the variable n to change the size of data you want to store before running it. The movement of the attached drone should take place during this period which is to be recorded.
*  After data is stored, run the [Calibrate.m](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/wireless_setup/MATLAB%20Scripts/Calibrate.m) script for post-processing the data for the calibrated output.
*  You can repeat the last previous three steps for as many takes you want for storing the data.

### PWM Calibration Files

These files were used to determine the relation between motor speeds and PWM signal and use that relation to determine required PWM signal for a specific rotation profile. The function of the files are briefly described here.
*  [tacho.cpp](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/pwm_calibration/Arduino%20Codes/tacho.cpp): This file contains the arduino sketch which is used to automatically determine the relation using arduino. The procedure and the setup are described in details in Thesis book **chapter 9.2**.
*  [rps_to_pwm_conversion.m](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/pwm_calibration/MATLAB%20Scripts/rps_to_pwm_conversion.m): This script is used to utilize the previously determined data points indicating the relations saved in an excel file as well as another excel file containing the simulated data to generate the PWM signal profile for individual motors. Study the code and its documentation for better idea.
*  [for_arduino.m](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/pwm_calibration/MATLAB%20Scripts/for_arduino.m): This script is run after the previous script. It is used to ease the hassle of copy-pasting the huge dataset to the arduino's flash memory that would run the motors accordingly. Study the code carefully.
*  [pwm_calibration_traj.cpp](https://github.com/sheriffMelamine/Undergraduate-Thesis-Testbench-setup/blob/main/pwm_calibration/Arduino%20Codes/pwm_calibration_traj.cpp): This code contains the arduino sketch for running the motors with the determined PWM signal profile. Study the code for better understanding.
##  Suggestions
This software framework is developed for only recording the testbench data for postprocessing. For realtime data recording, the scripts should be modified according to the need. You can use these files as a reference to code on your own. For more robust software framework, ROS is recommended.
##  Acknowledgements
*  [Department of Mechanical Engineering, BUET](https://me.buet.ac.bd/)
*  [Research and Innovation centre for Science and Engineering, BUET](https://rise.buet.ac.bd/#/)
